#+LaTeX: \begin{acknowledgements}
This work is the realization of a goal that I've had since I was a
sophomore in high school. My love of science started much earlier with
a set of encyclopedia's for children given to my by my grandmother,
Alice Ganksop. Without her and my mother's (Lisa Bjergaard) support,
my love of science wouldn't have grown to give me the dedication
required to complete a PhD. As a high school student, two educators
stand out as having significant influence on my path to a PhD in
physics: Don Haufschild, my physics teacher and David McDowell, my
pre-calculus teacher. As an undergraduate, I was significantly
influenced by Petar Maksimovic and Salvatore Rappoccio, both of which
formed the foundation of research skills that I've continued to use
and hone throughout my PhD. The constant support of my wife, Swarnali
Sengupta Bjergaard has allowed me to grow in ways I did not know were
possible. Both of our parents have given us countless hours of
guidance in managing our work-life balance as well as problem solving
many problems related to research and otherwise.

Professionally I have benefited from many of my peers as well as
people who have mentored me to become a better physicist. Chris
Pollard and Ben Cerio were especially helpful in the early years of my
PhD for helping me solve problems with analysis. Ben always kept me on
my toes and helped me see the possibility of moving beyond an academic
career path. My sub-group conveners, Bruce Yabsly and Andrew Chisholm,
in the B and Light States Group have constantly challenged me to
approach my work rigorously and to communicate clearly. Every one of
their suggestions has made my analysis stronger.  The person who has
mentored me and guided me the most through my PhD is my advisor, Ayana
Arce.  She has helped me through tough professional decisions and
always pushed me to be an independent thinker.  
#+LaTeX: \end{acknowledgements}
