#+LaTeX: \chapter{Introduction}

The history of particle physics spans over a century of experimental
and theoretical development that has lead to some of the deepest
insights into nature. A comprehensive history of the subject is beyond
the scope of this document, however a starting point is required.
During the post-war period of the early 1950s a series of bubble
chamber experiments led to the discovery of the $\Lambda$, $\Xi$ and
$\Sigma$ baryons[fn::Baryons are bound states of three quarks. The
name is derived from the greek word "heavy" or "barus" ]. This coupled
with the discoveries of the $K$, $\pi$ and $\eta$ mesons[fn:: Mesons
are bound states of a quark and an anti-quark. The name is derived
from the greek word "intermediate" or "mesos" ] lead to the proposal
of the "eightfold way" \cite{PhysRev.125.1067}. The guiding principal
of the eightfold way is to use the structure of a proposed
$SU(3)\times SU(3)$ symmetry to explain the meson and baryon's known
to date and to make strong predictions about new states that should be
observed \cite{PhysRev.125.1067}. This organization of the particles
hints at the existence of fundamental particles called /quarks/.

While the eightfold way provided an organizational scheme and strong
predictions of the relationships between the members of the baryon
octet, experimental evidence for the existence of quarks came later.
In 1971, Feynman published what is now known as the parton[fn:: Parton
so called for being a "part" of the hadron. Also rumored to be named
after Dolly Parton, the country singer\cite{ashone}. ] model of the
hadron \cite{PhysRevD.3.2706}. This model treated the components of
the hadron as fundamental particles with physical properties. This is
in contrast with the quark model of the eightfold way which did not
describe quarks as physical particles. The parton model described many
experimental results to a reasonable degree however there were some
issues, namely a "fudge factor" to bring the calculations close enough
to their experimental values to be compared \cite{PhysRevD.3.2706}.

The eightfold way and the parton model provided two complementary
views of the structure of the hadron. The eightfold way provided a
computational framework that was successful in describing many
observed patterns in the quantum numbers of the known hadrons. The
parton model provided a physical picture for the structure of the
hadron. Neither model provided a precise description of the underlying
dynamics of the strong interaction.

In November, 1973 Wilczek and Gross published their seminal paper on
asymptotically free gauge theories \cite{PhysRevD.8.3633}. This paper
laid the groundwork for what would become quantum chromodynamics (QCD)
the theory underpinning the subject of this thesis. A year later in
1974 the discovery of a new particle was announced independently by a
group at Brookhaven National Lab (named the $J$) and a group at the
Stanford Linear Accelerator (named the $\psi$)
\cite{PhysRevLett.33.1404}\cite{PhysRevLett.33.1406}. The joint
discovery of the J/\psi lead to what is known colloquially as the
"November revolution." The new particle provided a new piece of
experimental evidence that confirmed the picture of quarks and helped
to unravel the mysteries of the strong interaction.

We now understand that hadrons are made up of quarks and gluons
(partons in Feynman's parlance). In addition, the bound state of a
quark and anti-quark of the same flavor are referred to as quarkonium.
This name is reminiscent of positronium, the eletromagnetically bound
state of a positron and electron. Many of the salient features of
quarkonium mass spectrum can be understood with non-relativistic
quantum mechanics and emperical models of the QCD potential. Even with
this deep understanding of nature's fundamental interactions, the
J/\psi particle continues to perplex and confuse our understanding of
QCD. In 1992, the CDF collaboration at the Tevatron reported the first
measurement of J/\psi and \psi(2S) production. They found the rate of
production to be an order of magnitude more than the expectation from
theory \cite{Abe:1992ww}. Two years later, Bodwin, Braaten and Lepage
worked out many of the details of quarkonium production in QCD using
effective field theory\cite{Bodwin:1994jh}.

In 1997, the Tevatron updated its observation of the \psi system with
more data. It reported the differential cross section of the J/\psi to
be much higher than anticipated by the leading order theory
calculation for singlet production \cite{PhysRevlett.79.572}. The
details worked out by Bodwin et al positioned the theory community to
quickly calculate the needed contributions from the non-relativistic
expansion of QCD (NRQCD) in order to describe the data
\cite{PhysRevD.55.R5269}.

The extra NRQCD components that describe the observed p_T spectrum
predicted that the spin alignment between the J/\psi and the decaying
muons be strongly polarized. Subsequent measurements of the
polarization at CDF find no evidence of polarized spin-alignment in
the J/\psi system \cite{PhysRevLett.85.2886}. This problem has been
dubbed the "polarization puzzle" in literature and has no satisfying
explanation nearly two decades after its first observation.

The production of charm quark pairs which transition to the J/\psi
state probes two complementary energy scales. The origination of the
pair happens during the primary interaction of two partons. This is a
high energy interaction, and can be calculated using perturbation
theory. After the pair of quarks is produced, their relative motion
determines the dynamics of the bound state. This is at a much lower
energy scale and is non-perturbative. Handling these two scales is the
major theoretical challenge to calculating a quantitative cross
section for quarkonium production.

While there has been much theoretical work to understand J/\psi
production, experimental approaches have mainly focused on measuring
the differential production cross section of isolated, directly
produced J/\psi particles. Little to no attention has been paid to the
hadronic environment surrounding the charmonium system. If the
charmonium is produced in a color singlet state, the surrounding
radiation should be less than a charmonium state in a color octet
state.  

A useful phenomenological model employed by Pythia [fn:: A generic
Monte Carlo simulation program used in High Energy Physics] is to
consider the charmonium system as a color-charged particle which can
couple to gluons using rules of QCD \cite{Sjostrand:2007gs}. As this
particle propogates it emits co-linear gluon radiation according to a
splitting function for the process $q\rightarrow q g$. When the
composite particle falls below a certain threshold, it transitions to
a color singlet J/\psi hadron and emits the remaining color charge as
a soft gluon which is incorporated into the underlying event. This is
in contrast to color singlet production which has the J/\psi produced
directly and no net color charge.

An alternative view of charmonium production is the production of the
charm quark pair during the fragmentation of partons into individual
hadrons. In the fragmenting jet function (FJF)
framework\cite{Procura:2009vm}, the total cross section is a product
of the short distance partonic cross section with universal
fragmentation functions which determine the evolution of individual
partons to hadrons.

The FJF framework differs from the Pythia model in how it treats the
distribution of radiation around the charmonium system.  In the FJF
approach, a high energy gluon splits according to a splitting function
for $g\rightarrow g g$, which is very different from Pythia's model
which allows the charmonium system to radiate according to a splitting
function for $q \rightarrow q g$.  This leads to fundamentally
different distributions of momentum between the surrounding radiation
and the charmonium system \cite{Bain:2016clc}.  

